
Test user

TestUsername
TestEmail@gmail.com
Password123
Password123

so far I need node.js, Mangodb and the packages below.

start the server with the following code

open Command Prompt
cd E:
cd CODE\Practice\login-signup-form-1
mongod
cd src
node server.js


installs the following Node.js packages, which are commonly used in building web applications, particularly with Express.js and MongoDB:
The command npm install express mongoose bcrypt jsonwebtoken body-parser 

npm init -y
npm install express mongoose bcrypt jsonwebtoken body-parser
npm install cors

https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/community

Summary:
This command installs packages that are commonly used to:

Set up a web server with Express.
Connect the app to a MongoDB database with Mongoose.
Implement secure password hashing with bcrypt.
Use JWTs for authentication with jsonwebtoken.
Parse incoming request data with body-parse


Package: express
Purpose: A minimalist web framework for Node.js, used to create APIs and web applications.
Use Case: Routing, handling requests and responses, and creating middleware in your app.
Mongoose:

Package: mongoose
Purpose: An ODM (Object Data Modeling) library for MongoDB and Node.js. It helps manage the database and perform CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations using a schema-based model.
Use Case: Connecting your Node.js app to MongoDB and defining models for structured data.
bcrypt:

Package: bcrypt
Purpose: A library used to hash and salt passwords securely. It’s commonly used for user authentication systems to securely store passwords.
Use Case: Password hashing for secure storage and verification during login.
jsonwebtoken:

Package: jsonwebtoken
Purpose: A library used to sign and verify JSON Web Tokens (JWTs). JWTs are often used for authentication and session management in web applications.
Use Case: Generating and verifying tokens for user authentication and secure access to resources.
body-parser:

Package: body-parser
Purpose: A middleware for parsing incoming request bodies in a middleware before your handlers. It helps extract data from requests (e.g., JSON or form data).
Use Case: Handling form submissions or incoming JSON data in requests.


Step 4: Generate JWT Secret Key
Open Terminal/Command Prompt: Run the following Node.js script to generate a random string for your JWT secret key4
.

node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(32).toString('hex'))"

Copy the Generated Key: This will print a random string to the console4
. Copy this string and use it as your JWT secret key in your application4
.